Okay I have an example of using Spring
Boot with Oracle here so there's a
little bit of prep that we need to do
for this one is to get the Oracle
database going and I am actually running
Oracle 12c via VirtualBox and this
is something that you can download for
free and utilize for your development
see down here and I do have a VirtualBox
cooking, I'll show you the right window so
here's the Oracle VM running in
VirtualBox which gives me a 12c database
to work with it's kind of a convenient
way to bring up Oracle on your
local system for for development. Go to
the Oracle page download that you'll
need to accept Oracle's licensing
agreements of course. It's a little beefy
but they do recommend a Giga memory I'm
not running that I think I gave it to
maybe four gig and it's up and running
fine it's not something that you'd want
to use for any type of production type
stuff but it is working for that so the
source code for this example is going to
be up on GitHub under
github/springframeworkguru
and the repository
name is spring-boot-oracle-example.
So on this I do have a README here,
another thing that we need to do for
preparations is downloading the Oracle
JDBC driver and it's something that I
had to go through to get the proper
driver version installed. If
you Google out the driver, you want this
JDBC thin driver. Oracle offers a lot of
options for the JDBC drivers, 95% of time the light JDBC jar 7
is going to be just fine for what you need. But
Oracle makes you go through all this so
you can click on this thing here and say
that you accept their license agreement.
That is rather annoying Oracle
Corporation because the driver is not
available in public Maven repos so
because Oracle wants you to accept their
license agreement and
click and then sign-in and sign-out that
you are accepting Oracle's terms, you
have to go through this. You can download
it to your system and then install it. Now if you are in a company where you
are running your own Maven repository
such as artifactory or possibly Nexus
you can upload this jar there and then
your builds will function normally that's
what companies normally do but if you're
a private developer on your own this
Maven command here you can download
the jar upload it to your local Maven
repository and then things will be happy
for your project to build and run. So I'm
going to jump over to IntelliJ and start
stepping through this so the Oracle
stuff that we need to set up, we need to
setup on line 5 the data source URL and
if you're going to follow along exactly
with me localhost 1521 for the port and
Oracle 12c for the CID. The orcl12c,
so it's kind of hard to see there the
the l and the one, pretty similar
but that is orcl12c for Oracle 12c.
Now I am using the account system and
any Oracle DBA watching this would
probably freak but that is the most
powerful account in an Oracle database.
I'm not setting up a service account if
this was a production application I'd
say definitely set up a service account,
do not use what equipment is the
equivalent of a root account for a web
application, that would be very bad.
Oracle has got some outstanding security
features so I'm just taking a shortcut
because I'm using SVM here and I can trash
and do whatever I want to. So system
Oracle the image downloaded from Oracle,
all the passwords will be default to Oracle
and if you're an old Oracle guy like I am
it used to be System Manager so you'll
see a lot of that out on Oracle
instances but Oracle has been changing
that in the last few years so
in this case it is system Oracle
for the password and a couple things
here that we're keeping the connection
alive we are telling Spring JPA to show
SQL and then we also have a create drop
strategy for the database and I just
realized I had a bad naming strategy
here updating that on the fly here these
have changed, I stole it from another
project cutting and pasting in here, so these naming strategies implicit and
physical have changed with Hibernate
5 . So that what I had in there was old
this is now current and we are using the
Oracle10gDialect for the Oracle and
this is what configures Hibernate to
talk to Oracle's flavor of SQL so there
is ANSI SQL out there everybody's a
little bit different so this is what
configures Hibernate for that. So let's
go ahead and step through this
application now. So I will start up from
the domain object so we have an Entity,
JPA Entity, persistence ID, we want to clear that, go
ahead and import that so we don't have
that ugliness there and then GenerationType of AUTO so this is going to be
managed by Hibernate. So Hibernate will be generating the ID
value so we have a pretty simple example
here so we have an id, description, price
for our "product" so
pretty simple example of a product and
what we want to do is set up a Spring
application for that so we'll go up the
food chain of this so we are using
Spring Data JPA
I am declaring a CrudRepository which
will give us CRUD operations right out
of that and I'm telling this to using
Java generics to use Product and Long
for the ID and this sets things up so we
can get Spring Data JPA to provide us an
implementation so or to note if you're
not used to Spring Data by
declaring the repository interface at
runtime Spring will provide us an
instance of
that and it gets fired into our classes. So we
just provide the interface and then
Spring Data will give us the runtime
for that. Now
I do grab the repository up in a service
so I'd like to have a service layer
that sits between the controller and the
database layer. So all the business logic
should happen inside the service layer
it keeps your controller very clean by
doing this you can see that I have set
up variety of methods that we are going
to use to support CRUD operation. So we
have listing products, getting a specific
product, deleting product, so this all
CRUD type operations that we can use
with it and you can also see that I have
a converter object in this, so let's go
take a look at that. So I have Product
and I have ProductForm so I have
converters. I'm using the Spring
standard converter class to convert one
to the other it gives you a nice spot
where your logic is all self-contained
in a single class, good old single
responsibility principle, your classes
should have one functional life that's
what makes a converter pattern quite
nice and then Spring will manage the
objects for us. So next thing let's take
a look at the controller so I have a
ProductController and this takes in my
ProductService and notice I'm using the
interface and not the implementation so
if I want to set up unit tests for this
it'll go ahead and utilize that. I'm not
going to get into all the Spring
specific MVC mapping. So this is a
typical Spring controller. You can see
that for product or produc/ list I'm
going to return back a list of products
and I have the ability to show a single
product, edit, create a new product and
then here is my saveOrUpdate. So this is
what will accept a form post and I'm
expecting a ProductForm to come in and
then I will persist that using the
ProductService and then finally we have
a delete action so I can run I guess a
delete URL and then delete from that
and then it will delete and redirect to
the list and let's take a look at the
templates. So that is a controller I am
using Thymeleaf here. So we'll take a
quick look at this, this is a Thymeleaf
template you can see up here I just
declared the XML namespace for Thymeleaf
using standard HTML 5 here. I'm not going
to get into a lot of specifics of Thymeleaf
in here. I have a whole course on
Thymeleaf so if you want them to learn a
lot more about Thymeleaf go check out
that course but here I am listing out
products so I'll show you what's going
on here line 19 the controller is going
to return back a list of products and
then I will iterate through the list of
products to render a table of products
so that's what's going on here. Product
Form, pretty similar, standard HTML stuff
but I'm using Thymeleaf to show the
ProductForm, it will be empty if it's a
new product or it will be pre-populated
if I'm editing and then finally we have
the show HTML for Thymeleaf which
will show a product ID and we can see
that Thymeleaf here, this section code
here would bind out the product ID to a
value on the show display of the HTML. So
let's go ahead and run this. I'm going to
bring this up and important to note that
I do have Oracle running and the VM
behind it so it's going to come up and
connect to Oracle and because of the way
it's set up it will create that product
table on startup. So I'm going to come
back over to Chrome refresh this, have no
products in the product list so let's
call this test 1, price it to
$22, some URL. Now I'm not
doing any validations here, it's pretty
simple so I can see that product was
created so I'm going to go back here
that shows me the product list, let's
create test2
and if I come back to the product/list
again you can see that I have two
products out there I can come in and
edit, let's call them test222
and I have things set up here so down in
the bottom this is the Spring Boot
output and I am outputting the SQL so
when I hit submit you can see that the
SQL was sent out to the console and we
can see that it was updated and finally
let's go ahead and delete that second
one and see he deleted it, actually was
deleted. So this is being persisted
to to Oracle, again just a recap all
source code is up on GitHub at /springframeworkguru/spring-
boot-oracle-example. If you need a
instance of Oracle you can download the
VirtualBox Oracle instance, comes all
pre-configured right out-of-the-box you
can get it working and then the other
annoying nuance about working with
Oracle is you have to download and
accept their license agreement and if
you forget the command to upload the
Oracle JDBC drivers here is the Maven
command right here to install the Oracle
jar on your local Maven repository. I
hope that you found this example of
Oracle helpful, please leave a comment on
this video if you did.